API Reference
=============

This document attempts to document the API provided by the pyopnsenseapi library.
It is a combination of autogenerated api documentation and usage explanations.

Opening a connection
---------------------

All new connections should be created by instantiating ``pyopnsenseapi.Client``

You will need the ``api_key``, ``api_secret`` and the hostname / IP address
of the OPNsense install that you would like to interact with.

Set ``use_ssl`` to ``True`` or ``False`` depending on if your install uses SSL.
Set ``verify_cert`` to ``True`` or ``False`` (see below for more information).

You can also override the default timeout by setting ``timeout`` to a positive int.
The timeout argument is measured in seconds.

SSL Certificate Verification
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

By default the SSL certificate verification is disabled. This is to enable a
working client out of the box. (since by default OPNsense is it's own CA, so
it likely won't be in your system's CA bundle) The tradeoff here is obviously
security. It's **strongly** recommended that you enable SSL verification once
you start using the client for anything beyond basic testing. To do this the
``verify_ssl`` argument is used. You should set this to ``True`` once the CA
 certificate is available in the local system CA store.

.. _requests: http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/

Client Classes
==============

Diagnostics API
---------------
.. automodule:: pyopnsenseapi.modules.diagnostics
    :members:
    :show-inheritance:
